## For instruction on writing tutorials
## http://www.ros.org/wiki/WritingTutorials
####################################
##FILL ME IN
####################################
## for a custom note with links:
## note =
## for the canned note of "This tutorial assumes that you have completed the previous tutorials:" just add the links http://wiki.ros.org/rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Operation%20on%20QNX#Note_for_Log_Files
## note.0= 
## descriptive title for the tutorial
## title = Operation on QNX
## multi-line description to be displayed in search 
## description = 
## the next tutorial description (optional)
## next =
## links to next tutorial (optional)
## next.0.link= [[rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Changing Nextage Grippers in Robot Model]]
## next.1.link=
## what level user is this tutorial for 
## level= AdvancedCategory
## keywords = Hiro, NEXTAGE OPEN, QNX, controller
####################################

<<IncludeCSTemplate(TutorialCSHeaderTemplate)>>
<<TableOfContents(4)>>

= Introduction =
##BEGIN_INTRO_QNX_OPERATION
How to install necessary software on `QNX` will not be disclosed for awhile, since it's so error-prone at this moment mainly due to the lack of robust packaging infrastructure (like `ROS` has) and thus a long list of manual work is strictly enforced.

However, for the cases as below touching inside of `QNX` is required:

 * When you need to rollback to the previous closed-source `GRX` controller (to use the program you wrote for it).
 * See log files for debugging cases that aren't clear from logs available via API on `Ubuntu` software.

##END_INTRO_QNX_OPERATION

In this page you'll find minimum things that you may find useful about setting on `QNX` on `Hiro/NEXTAGE OPEN`.

We assume that you can log on to `QNX` by:

{{{
YOURHOST$ ssh -l %QNX_YOUR_USER% %IPADDR_YOUR_QNX%
}}}

= Daily Operation =
NOTE: Need for a GUI tool to operate everyday task is noticed. Work is in progress.

== Shutdown QNX ==
{{{
QNX$ su -c '/opt/grx/bin/shutdown.sh'
}}}

== Reboot QNX ==
{{{
QNX$ su -c '//bin/shutdown'
}}}

= QNX Specific Troubleshooting =
Before you move on to scroll down this page, you're advised to go through the [[rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Known Troubleshoots|troubleshooting for Hironx / NEXTAGE OPEN]] page to review general ways of shooting issues or getting support.

Although we hope you found solution/workaround there, sometimes you might need to look into logs deep in the robot. Here are some ways to troubleshoot issues on your `Hiro/NEXTAGE OPEN` that might be rooted in software on `QNX`.

== Log Files ==
=== Available Log Files ===
In `/opt/jsk/var/log`, you'll find a few types of log files:

 * `Nameserver.log`
   * Issues related to [[openrtm_aist|OpenRTM]] or `CORBA` are most likely written here.

 * `Modelloader.log`
   * [[openhrp3|OpenHRP3]] issues logged here.

 * `rtcd.log`
   * Issues concerning `RT Components` from [[hrpsys]] are recoreded.

Copy of each of above file is generated automatically in the same folder.

=== Daily Operation with Logs ===
Currently, it is advised that you occasionally remove log files under `/opt/jsk/var/log` either manually or by custom script.

=== Note for Log Files ===
 * These log files above are generated automatically, and won't get removed automatically at the time of writing (3/18/2014).
 * Currently there's no way to look into log files remotely other than logging in on to QNX (via `ssh`). 
   * Developement of remote monitoring tools is being discussed at (TBD, currently happening only in a private issue tracker)

= To Rollback to Closed-source Grx Controller =
(This section will be filled per request basis. See [[rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Operation on QNX#Contribution|Contribution section]].)

= Contribution =
 * `Hironx / NEXTAGE OPEN` related `QNX` issues are currently handled in a private repository.
 * Post your thoughts on [[http://groups.google.com/d/forum/rtm-ros-robotics|rtm-ros-robotics forum]] (this will be replaced by a designated issue tracker).

## AUTOGENERATED DO NOT DELETE 
## TutorialCategory
## FILL IN THE STACK TUTORIAL CATEGORY HERE
