## For instruction on writing tutorials
## http://www.ros.org/wiki/WritingTutorials
####################################
##FILL ME IN
####################################
## for a custom note with links:
## note =
## for the canned note of "This tutorial assumes that you have completed the previous tutorials:" just add the links 
## note.0= 
## descriptive title for the tutorial
## title = Troubleshooting
## multi-line description to be displayed in search 
## description = This is not a tutorial -- this page is there for the sake of search engine. Troubles and possible solutions/workarounds are recorded here.
## the next tutorial description (optional)
## next =
## links to next tutorial (optional)
## next.0.link= 
## next.1.link=
## what level user is this tutorial for 
## level= BeginnerCategory
## keywords =
####################################

<<IncludeCSTemplate(TutorialCSHeaderTemplate)>>
<<TableOfContents(4)>>

= Support Guideline for Hiro / NEXTAGE OPEN Opensource Controller =

Contact a support provider if you have contracted to the service (called `Subscription Service`).

Else, you still have several options to get support from opensource community:

 * In general, consulting [[Support|ROS support guideline]] is a good idea.
 * [[http://google.com|Google]] the erroroneous output. 
   * The more error reports accumulate, the larger chance you will find similar issue somewhere online with possibly keys to solutions.
 * Refer to [[rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Known Troubleshoots#Known_Issues|Known Issues]] and see if you find similar troubles / erroroneous output.

= Known Issues =
== With wstool ==
=== ERROR in config: Error processing ===
Upon `wstool update` the error might happen. Try removing the folder you're getting error with.

At the moment, a lot of tweaks are needed [[http://code.google.com/p/rtm-ros-robotics/issues/detail?id=175|as reported in this thread]].

== hrpsys_ros_bridge fails to build ==
{{{
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------}
[ rosmake ] Output from build of package hrpsys_ros_bridge written to:
[ rosmake ]    /home/leus/.ros/rosmake/rosmake_output-20130823-115337/hrpsys_ros_bridge/build_output.log
[rosmake-0] Finished <<< hrpsys_ros_bridge [FAIL] [ 143.86 seconds ]                                                           
[ rosmake ] Halting due to failure in package hrpsys_ros_bridge. 
[ rosmake ] Waiting for other threads to complete.           
[ rosmake ] Results:                                                                                                           
[ rosmake ] Built 75 packages with 1 failure

(roscd hrpsys_ros_bridge; make)
}}}

== AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'get_sysinfo' ==

{{{
$ simulation.launch 
:
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/home/leus/ros/groovy/rtm-ros-robotics/rtmros_common/hrpsys_ros_bridge/scripts/rtmlaunch", line 3, in <module>
    import os,psutil,subprocess,socket,sys
  File "/opt/ros/groovy/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/psutil/__init__.py", line 65, in <module>
    import psutil._pslinux as _psplatform
  File "/opt/ros/groovy/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/psutil/_pslinux.py", line 90, in <module>
    TOTAL_PHYMEM = _psutil_linux.get_sysinfo()[0]
AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'get_sysinfo'
}}}

If you see this error,
{{{
$ sudo apt-get remove ros-groovy-rqt-top
}}}

== No moveit! found? ==
{{{
$ roslaunch hironx_moveit_config moveit_planning_execution.launch
}}}

If you see error with this, then:

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install ros-groovy-moveit-full-pr2
}}}

== [rospack] Error: stack/package collada_tools not found ==
{{{
[rospack] Error: stack/package collada_tools not found
make[2]: *** [/home/leus/catkin_ws/src/rtmros_hironx/hironx_moveit_config/models/HiroNX.urdf] Error 2
make[1]: *** [rtmros_hironx/hironx_moveit_config/CMakeFiles/hironx_moveit_config_HiroNX_urdf.dir/all] Error 2
}}}
Then do:
{{{
$ mv src/rtmros_hironx .
}}}

== [rospack] Error: package/stack 'collada_tools' depends on non-existent package ==
{{{
[rospack] Error: package/stack 'collada_tools' depends on non-existent package 'colladadom' and rosdep claims that it is not a system dependency. Check the ROS_PACKAGE_PATH or try calling 'rosdep update'
}}}
Then comment out in `collada_tools/manifest.xml`:
{{{
<!-- <depend package="colladadom"/> -->
}}}

== rtm/idl/SDOPackageSkel.h:35:33: Fatal: rtm/idl/SDOPackage.hh: ==
{{{
$ rosmake hironx_ros_bridge
../../../../src/lib/rtm/idl/SDOPackageSkel.h:35:33: Fatal: rtm/idl/SDOPackage.hh: not found
}}}
Then,
{{{
$ rosdep install hironx_ros_bridge
}}}

Then before rosmake-ing,
{{{
$ roscd openrtm_aist
$ make clean
}}}

== Halt at [hrpsys.py]  waiting ModelLoader ==
When you run and see:
{{{
$ roscd hironx_ros_bridge/scripts
$ ./hironx.py
[hrpsys.py]  waiting ModelLoader
}}}

Then define environmental variable by running:
{{{
export RTCTREE_NAMESERVERS=localhost:5005
export ORBInitRef="NameService=corbaloc:iiop:localhost:15005/NameService"
}}}

== run_id on parameter server does not match declared run_id: ==
If you see a message like this while trying to run with MoveIt!, check if your computer is able to communicate with your real robot.
{{{
run_id on parameter server does not match declared run_id: e6ff428e-0ec8-11e3-a8cf-88532e0fe6e6 vs e8491bd8-0ec8-11e3-9deb-88532e0fe6e6
}}}

== Upon initialization "TRANSIENT: CORBA.TRANSIENT" ==
{{{
TRANSIENT: CORBA.TRANSIENT(omniORB.TRANSIENT_ConnectFailed, CORBA.COMPLETED_NO)
}}}

Run hironx by:
{{{
$ rtmlaunch hironx_ros_bridge hironx_startup.launch
}}}

== No or less tf published ==
There could be various cases with `Hiro` or `Nextage Open` where [[tf]] isn't sufficiently published. Some possibilities:

 * Make sure `ros_bridge` is running on Vision PC (Ubuntu) ([[http://wiki.ros.org/rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Operating%20Hiro%2C%20NEXTAGE%20OPEN%20from%20Client%20Pograms#Run_RTM_ROS_bridge|see]]).

 * Vision PC (Ubuntu) is using other than `eth0` ([[https://github.com/start-jsk/rtmros_hironx/issues/33|reference]]).

 * Similarly, Vision PC (Ubuntu) is using `eth0` but other application that adds virtual `NIC` is running ([[https://github.com/start-jsk/rtmros_hironx/issues/33#issuecomment-48887651|see]]).

## AUTOGENERATED DO NOT DELETE 
## TutorialCategory
## FILL IN THE STACK TUTORIAL CATEGORY HERE
