## For instruction on writing tutorials
## http://www.ros.org/wiki/WritingTutorials
####################################
##FILL ME IN
####################################
## for a custom note with links:
## note =
## for the canned note of "This tutorial assumes that you have completed the previous tutorials:" just add the links 
## note.0= 
## descriptive title for the tutorial
## title = Support, Contribution
## multi-line description to be displayed in search 
## description = Available support on opensource community, and how to give back contribution.
## the next tutorial description (optional)
## next =
## links to next tutorial (optional)
## next.0.link= 
## next.1.link=
## what level user is this tutorial for 
## level= BeginnerCategory
## keywords =
####################################

<<IncludeCSTemplate(TutorialCSHeaderTemplate)>>

<<TableOfContents(4)>>

<<Include(rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Install NEXTAGE OPEN software on your machine,,from="##begin_terminology",to="##end_terminology")>>

== Support == 
=== Free Support via Community ===
Users without professional support service contract (if you don't own the `HiroNXO`robot you definitely fall into this category) still can get a limited level of assistance:

 * Software update notice will be announced via rtm-ros-robotics community. We strongly encourage you subscribe to it.
 * Official QA forum for general ROS questions http://answers.ros.org (13 new questions on average, 70% of them get resolved) 
 * Request for troubleshooting / enhancement can be opened at the repository of each software package (locations are available from the wiki pages of each package). 

=== Professional support services ===
(TBD)

== Type of Contribution ==
For `HiroNX` software, there are a number of ways to contribute back on an opensource basis. 

=== Ask questions. Complain (no rant) ===
Asking questions always help developers to realize what was missing (eg. more human readable error message, more error handling). So do not hesitate to ask any questions, via one of the channels below.

Just remmeber reviewing the etiquette of asking questions if you're about to ask for the first time. [[http://wiki.ros.org/Support|ROS wiki]] provides a complete lists for it.

 * For general questions, discussion, requests: Use [[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rtm-ros-robotics|rtm-ros-robotics forum]]
 * If you feel confident in more of any specifics, open a "issue" or "ticket" on the '''issue tracker''' of `rtmros_hironx`, to which link can be found on its ROS wiki page '''[[http://wiki.ros.org/action/edit/rtmros_hironx|rtmros_hironx]]'''.
   * This issue tracker works as one-stop entry point for all the issues regarding `HiroNX`. Even if you're unsure if the the issues you're seeing is happening in `rtmros_hironx` or even more lower level (ie. in "upstream" libraries that `rtmros_hironx` depends on), you're welcomed to report it there. Later someone may move the ticket to the appropriate repository.

=== Adding/Changing Documentation ===

We make efforts to centralize locations to host documents for `HiroNX` on only a few following places:

 * `wiki.ros.org` is the hub for documents (including tutorial like you're seeing now).
 * [[http://docs.ros.org/hydro/api/hironx_ros_bridge/html/|docs.ros.org]] automatically generated html from in-code documents.

==== ROS wiki ====

 1. Create your account if you haven't done so [[http://wiki.ros.org/action/login/rtmros_hironx?action=login|here]].
 2. Add necessary edition to the wiki page. It's a good custom to add description for your commit comments when you finalize.
 3. Also it's always helpful to check your change, by seeing from `Info` link available on the same wiki page you just edited.

==== Inline Source code Document ====

To add/change in-source document is the same as [[http://wiki.ros.org/rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/To%20Contribute%20Back#Adding.2BAC8-Changing_Source_Code|to change source code]].

=== Adding/Changing Source Code ===

Please open a [[https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests|pull requests]] on the designated source repository.

== Professional support ==
There's a professional service provider for the HiroNX software. If you're interested, please contact them ([[mailto:support@opensource-robotics.tokyo.jp|TORK]]).

## AUTOGENERATED DO NOT DELETE 
## TutorialCategory
## FILL IN THE STACK TUTORIAL CATEGORY HERE
