## For instruction on writing tutorials
## http://www.ros.org/wiki/WritingTutorials
####################################
##FILL ME IN
####################################
## for a custom note with links:
## for the canned note of "This tutorial assumes that you have completed the previous tutorials:" just add the links 
## note.0=
## descriptive title for the tutorial
## title = Install Hironx/NEXTAGE OPEN API software on your machine
## multi-line description to be displayed in search 
## description = Installation described here can be applied to both Hironx and NEXTAGE OPEN robots. Also illustrated here is the role of the two computers that come with the robot (QNX, Ubuntu).
## the next tutorial description (optional)
## next = 
## links to next tutorial (optional)
## next.0.link= [[rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Run simulation|Run simulation]]
## what level user is this tutorial for 
## level= BeginnerCategory
## keywords = Hiro, Hironx, NEXTAGE OPEN
####################################

<<IncludeCSTemplate(TutorialCSHeaderTemplate)>>
<<TableOfContents(4)>>

== Introduction ==
=== Two control computers ===
`Kawada`'s `Hiro` and `NEXTAGE OPEN` robots run on two computers. For those who don't have an access to the product manual, brief description of both are:

 * "Controller Box" (as officially called) that runs on `QNX` realtime OS. Hardware control is done here. 
   * Software here are NOT installable / modifiable by default. Please consult the business rep at the software service provider (see [[http://wiki.ros.org/rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/To%20Contribute%20Back#Professional_support|this section]]) if you wish. For those who have an access to `QNX`, some daily operational tasks [[rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Operation on QNX|are available in another tutorial]].
 * "UI Controller Box" or "Vision PC" that runs on `Ubuntu`. Higher level application runs here.

In this tutorial, only the basic and recommended installation method is introduced. For advanced way of doing it (e.g. source install), please [[rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Advanced way to install Hironx-NEXTAGE OPEN software|consult another tutorial]].

=== Overall software components ===

##begin_swcomponent_hironx_nxo
[[https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/12jyX6fGuVDiIJpACxixHhZ_Z8IdO1yIcJhkkrJ7B0Pk/edit|{{https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/12jyX6fGuVDiIJpACxixHhZ_Z8IdO1yIcJhkkrJ7B0Pk/pub?w=840&h=600}}]]
    Fig. (click to magnify) Software components diagram both on `QNX` and `Ubuntu` for `Hiro/NEXTAGE OPEN`. You can see that users can write their own software to control the robot through `ROS` and [[hrpsys]], how ever they like.
##end_swcomponent_hironx_nxo

The tutorial page gives a full list of the tasks to install necessary software on `Ubuntu`, the application server that is commonly called as "`Vision PC`" by the manufacturer.

=== Installation and usage on QNX ===

<<Include(rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Operation on QNX,,from="##BEGIN_INTRO_QNX_OPERATION",to="##END_INTRO_QNX_OPERATION")>>

There's [[rtmros_nextage/Tutorials/Operation on QNX|another tutorial page for that purpose]].

=== Terminology ===

##begin_terminology
'''''NOTE''''': All the tutorials available under the URL [[http://wiki.ros.org/rtmros_nextage/Tutorials|http://wiki.ros.org/rtmros_nextage/Tutorials]] are applicable to the different product of Kawada Industries, `Hiro` (only with opensource software installed) and `NEXTAGE OPEN`. To simplify the notation in the rest of the tutorials, we use '''''HiroNXO''''' to appoint the two types of the robots above.
##end_terminology

##begin_howto_install_rtmros_nextage
== Requirement ==
=== Prerequiste work ===
 * Install ROS. Follow [[ROS/Installation]] to install `ROS` on your machine if you haven't done so yet. For available `ROS` distro, please consult [[rtmros_nextage]] and see what "distro" buttons are there (eg. `groovy`, `hydro`).

 * Finish [[http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials|ROS fundamental tutorials]]. Focus on the build tool you would use (`catkin` or `rosbuild`)

 * If you're working with real robots, please contact business representative of the manufacturer to see if your robot is compatible with this set of software.

##begin_workstation_env
=== Development workstation environment ===
  * (Robot owner only) Connected to `QNX` over the `Ethernet`. 
    * You can verify by running a single command: `ping nextage`. See manufacturer's manual if this fails.
  * `Intel i5` or above.
  * 4GB RAM or above.
  * 15GB free disk space.
  * Ubuntu 12.04
  * [[hydro|ROS Hydro]]. Necessary controller software on top of ROS must be already installed.
##end_workstation_env

== Install via debian binary (RECOMMENDED) ==
`.deb` binary is available only in `ROS` [[groovy]] and later.

Install by downloading via `apt`.
{{{
$ apt-get update
$ apt-get install ros-hydro-rtmros-hironx ros-%ROS_DISTRO%-rtmros-nextage ros-%ROS_DISTRO%-moveit-ros-visualization ros-%ROS_DISTRO%-moveit-planners-ompl
(eg.)
$ apt-get install ros-hydro-rtmros-hironx ros-hydro-rtmros-nextage ros-hydro-moveit-ros-visualization ros-hydro-moveit-planners-ompl
}}}

Doing so will automatically install some dependency including [[openrtm_aist_core]], [[openhrp3]], [[hrpsys]], [[rtmros_common]], and [[rtmros_hironx]] and their sub packages.

=== Update Binaries ===
When you know that newer binary version is available,

{{{
$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
}}}

This will install newer version of what's already installed if available. 
##end_howto_install_rtmros_nextage

## AUTOGENERATED DO NOT DELETE 
## TutorialCategory
## FILL IN THE STACK TUTORIAL CATEGORY HERE
